EUELPIDES  (to his jay) Do you think I should walk straight for yon tree?   PITHETAERUS  (to his crow) Cursed beast, what are you croaking to me?...to retrace my steps?   EUELPIDES Why, you wretch, we are wandering at random, we are exerting ourselves only to return to the same spot; we're wasting our time.  PITHETAERUS To think that I should trust to this crow, which has made me cover more than a thousand furlongs!   EUELPIDES And that I, in obedience to this jay, should have worn my toes down to the nails!   PITHETAERUS If only I knew where we were....   EUELPIDES Could you find your country again from here?   PITHETAERUS No, I feel quite sure I could not, any more than could Execestides find his.   EUELPIDES Alas!   PITHETAERUS Aye, aye, my friend, it's surely the road of "alases" we are following.   EUELPIDES That Philocrates, the bird-seller, played us a scurvy trick, when he pretended these two guides could help us to find Tereus, the Epops, who is a bird, without being born of one. He has indeed sold us this jay, a true son of Tharrhelides, for an obolus, and this crow for three, but what can they do? Why, nothing whatever but bite and scratch!  (To his jay)  What's the matter with you then, that you keep opening your beak? Do you want us to fling ourselves headlong down these rocks? There is no road that way.   PITHETAERUS Not even the vestige of a trail in any direction  EUELPIDES And what does the crow say about the road to follow?  PITHETAERUS By Zeus, it no longer croaks the same thing it did.  EUELPIDES And which way does it tell us to go now?   PITHETAERUS It says that, by dint of gnawing, it will devour my fingers.  EUELPIDES What misfortune is ours! we strain every nerve to get to the crows, do everything we can to that end, and we cannot find our way! Yes, spectators, our madness is quite different from that of Sacas. He is not a citizen, and would fain be one at any cost; we, on the contrary, born of an honourable tribe and family and living in the midst ofEUELPIDES  (to his jay) Do you think I should walk straight for yon tree?   PITHETAERUS  (to his crow) Cursed beast, what are you croaking to me?...to retrace my steps?   EUELPIDES Why, you wretch, we are wandering at random, we are exerting ourselves only to return to the same spot; we're wasting our time.  PITHETAERUS To think that I should trust to this crow, which has made me cover more than a thousand furlongs!   EUELPIDES And that I, in obedience to this jay, should have worn my toes down to the nails!   PITHETAERUS If only I knew where we were....   EUELPIDES Could you find your country again from here?   PITHETAERUS No, I feel quite sure I could not, any more than could Execestides find his.   EUELPIDES Alas!   PITHETAERUS Aye, aye, my friend, it's surely the road of "alases" we are following.   EUELPIDES That Philocrates, the bird-seller, played us a scurvy trick, when he pretended these two guides could help us to find Tereus, the Epops, who is a bird, without being born of one. He has indeed sold us this jay, a true son of Tharrhelides, for an obolus, and this crow for three, but what can they do? Why, nothing whatever but bite and scratch!  (To his jay)  What's the matter with you then, that you keep opening your beak? Do you want us to fling ourselves headlong down these rocks? There is no road that way.   PITHETAERUS Not even the vestige of a trail in any direction  EUELPIDES And what does the crow say about the road to follow?  PITHETAERUS By Zeus, it no longer croaks the same thing it did.  EUELPIDES And which way does it tell us to go now?   PITHETAERUS It says that, by dint of gnawing, it will devour my fingers.  EUELPIDES What misfortune is ours! we strain every nerve to get to the crows, do everything we can to that end, and we cannot find our way! Yes, spectators, our madness is quite different from that of Sacas. He is not a citizen, and would fain be one at any cost; we, on the contrary, born of an honourable tribe and family and living in the midst ofEUELPIDES  (to his jay) Do you think I should walk straight for yon tree?   PITHETAERUS  (to his crow) Cursed beast, what are you croaking to me?...to retrace my steps?   EUELPIDES Why, you wretch, we are wandering at random, we are exerting ourselves only to return to the same spot; we're wasting our time.  PITHETAERUS To think that I should trust to this crow, which has made me cover more than a thousand furlongs!   EUELPIDES And that I, in obedience to this jay, should have worn my toes down to the nails!   PITHETAERUS If only I knew where we were....   EUELPIDES Could you find your country again from here?   PITHETAERUS No, I feel quite sure I could not, any more than could Execestides find his.   EUELPIDES Alas!   PITHETAERUS Aye, aye, my friend, it's surely the road of "alases" we are following.   EUELPIDES That Philocrates, the bird-seller, played us a scurvy trick, when he pretended these two guides could help us to find Tereus, the Epops, who is a bird, without being born of one. He has indeed sold us this jay, a true son of Tharrhelides, for an obolus, and this crow for three, but what can they do? Why, nothing whatever but bite and scratch!  (To his jay)  What's the matter with you then, that you keep opening your beak? Do you want us to fling ourselves headlong down these rocks? There is no road that way.   PITHETAERUS Not even the vestige of a trail in any direction  EUELPIDES And what does the crow say about the road to follow?  PITHETAERUS By Zeus, it no longer croaks the same thing it did.  EUELPIDES And which way does it tell us to go now?   PITHETAERUS It says that, by dint of gnawing, it will devour my fingers.  EUELPIDES What misfortune is ours! we strain every nerve to get to the crows, do everything we can to that end, and we cannot find our way! Yes, spectators, our madness is quite different from that of Sacas. He is not a citizen, and would fain be one at any cost; we, on the contrary, born of an honourable tribe and family and living in the midst of
