EUELPIDES  (to his jay) Do you think I should walk straight for yon tree?   PITHETAERUS  (to his crow) Cursed beast, what are you croaking to me?...to retrace my steps?   EUELPIDES Why, you wretch, we are wandering at random, we are exerting ourselves only to return to the same spot; we're wasting our time.  PITHETAERUS To think that I should trust to this crow, which has made me cover more than a thousand furlongs!   EUELPIDES And that I, in obedience to this jay, should have worn my toes down to the nails!   PITHETAERUS If only I knew where we were....   EUELPIDES Could you find your country again from here?   PITHETAERUS No, I feel quite sure I could not, any more than could Execestides find his.   EUELPIDES Alas!   PITHETAERUS Aye, aye, my friend, it's surely the road of "alases" we are following.   EUELPIDES That Philocrates, the bird-seller, played us a scurvy trick, when he pretended these two guides could help us to find Tereus, the Epops, who is a bird, without being born of one. He has indeed sold us this jay, a true son of Tharrhelides, for an obolus, and this crow for three, but what can they do? Why, nothing whatever but bite and scratch!  (To his jay)  What's the matter with you then, that you keep opening your beak? Do you want us to fling ourselves headlong down these rocks? There is no road that way.   PITHETAERUS Not even the vestige of a trail in any direction  EUELPIDES And what does the crow say about the road to follow?  PITHETAERUS By Zeus, it no longer croaks the same thing it did.  EUELPIDES And which way does it tell us to go now?   PITHETAERUS It says that, by dint of gnawing, it will devour my fingers.  EUELPIDES What misfortune is ours! we strain every nerve to get to the crows, do everything we can to that end, and we cannot find our way! Yes, spectators, our madness is quite different from that of Sacas. He is not a citizen, and would fain be one at any cost; we, on the contrary, born of an honourable tribe and family and living in the midst of our fellow-citizens, we have fled from our country as hard as ever we could go. It's not that we hate it; we recognize it to be great and rich, likewise that everyone has the right to ruin himself paying taxes; but the crickets only chirrup among the fig-trees for a month or two, whereas the Athenians spend their whole lives in chanting forth judgments from their law-courts. That is why we started off with a basket, a stew-pot and some myrtle boughs! and have come to seek a quiet country in which to settle. We are going to Tereus, the Epops, to learn from him, whether, in his aerial flights, he has noticed some town of this kind.   PITHETAERUS Here! look!   EUELPIDES What's the matter?   PITHETAERUS Why, the crow has been directing me to something up there for some time now.   EUELPIDES And the jay is also opening it beak and craning its neck to show me I know not what. Clearly, there are some birds about here. We shall soon know, if we kick up a noise to start them.  PITHETAERUS Do you know what to do? Knock your leg against this rock.  EUELPIDES And you your head to double the noise.   PITHETAERUS Well then use a stone instead; take one and hammer with it.   EUELPIDES Good idea!  (He does so.)  Ho there, within! Slave! slave!  PITHETAERUS What's that, friend! You say, "slave," to summon Epops? It would be much better to shout, "Epops, Epops!   EUELPIDES Well then, Epops! Must I knock again? Epops!   TROCHILUS  (rushing out of a thicket) Who's there? Who calls my master?  PITHETAERUS  (in terror) Apollo the Deliverer! what an enormous beak! (He defecates. In the confusion both the jay and the crow fly away.)  TROCHILUS  (equally frightened) Good god! they are bird-catchers.  EUELPIDES  (reassuring himself) But is it so terrible? Wouldn't it be better to explain things?   TROCHILUS  (also reassuring himself) You're done for.   EUELPIDES But we are not men.   TROCHILUS What are you, then?   EUELPIDES  (defecating also) I am the Fearling, an African bird. EUELPIDES  (to his jay) Do you think I should walk straight for yon tree?   PITHETAERUS  (to his crow) Cursed beast, what are you croaking to me?...to retrace my steps?   EUELPIDES Why, you wretch, we are wandering at random, we are exerting ourselves only to return to the same spot; we're wasting our time.  PITHETAERUS To think that I should trust to this crow, which has made me cover more than a thousand furlongs!   EUELPIDES And that I, in obedience to this jay, should have worn my toes down to the nails!   PITHETAERUS If only I knew where we were....   EUELPIDES Could you find your country again from here?   PITHETAERUS No, I feel quite sure I could not, any more than could Execestides find his.   EUELPIDES Alas!   PITHETAERUS Aye, aye, my friend, it's surely the road of "alases" we are following.   EUELPIDES That Philocrates, the bird-seller, played us a scurvy trick, when he pretended these two guides could help us to find Tereus, the Epops, who is a bird, without being born of one. He has indeed sold us this jay, a true son of Tharrhelides, for an obolus, and this crow for three, but what can they do? Why, nothing whatever but bite and scratch!  (To his jay)  What's the matter with you then, that you keep opening your beak? Do you want us to fling ourselves headlong down these rocks? There is no road that way.   PITHETAERUS Not even the vestige of a trail in any direction  EUELPIDES And what does the crow say about the road to follow?  PITHETAERUS By Zeus, it no longer croaks the same thing it did.  EUELPIDES And which way does it tell us to go now?   PITHETAERUS It says that, by dint of gnawing, it will devour my fingers.  EUELPIDES What misfortune is ours! we strain every nerve to get to the crows, do everything we can to that end, and we cannot find our way! Yes, spectators, our madness is quite different from that of Sacas. He is not a citizen, and would fain be one at any cost; we, on the contrary, born of an honourable tribe and family and living in the midst of our fellow-citizens, we have fled from our country as hard as ever we could go. It's not that we hate it; we recognize it to be great and rich, likewise that everyone has the right to ruin himself paying taxes; but the crickets only chirrup among the fig-trees for a month or two, whereas the Athenians spend their whole lives in chanting forth judgments from their law-courts. That is why we started off with a basket, a stew-pot and some myrtle boughs! and have come to seek a quiet country in which to settle. We are going to Tereus, the Epops, to learn from him, whether, in his aerial flights, he has noticed some town of this kind.   PITHETAERUS Here! look!   EUELPIDES What's the matter?   PITHETAERUS Why, the crow has been directing me to something up there for some time now.   EUELPIDES And the jay is also opening it beak and craning its neck to show me I know not what. Clearly, there are some birds about here. We shall soon know, if we kick up a noise to start them.  PITHETAERUS Do you know what to do? Knock your leg against this rock.  EUELPIDES And you your head to double the noise.   PITHETAERUS Well then use a stone instead; take one and hammer with it.   EUELPIDES Good idea!  (He does so.)  Ho there, within! Slave! slave!  PITHETAERUS What's that, friend! You say, "slave," to summon Epops? It would be much better to shout, "Epops, Epops!   EUELPIDES Well then, Epops! Must I knock again? Epops!   TROCHILUS  (rushing out of a thicket) Who's there? Who calls my master?  PITHETAERUS  (in terror) Apollo the Deliverer! what an enormous beak! (He defecates. In the confusion both the jay and the crow fly away.)  TROCHILUS  (equally frightened) Good god! they are bird-catchers.  EUELPIDES  (reassuring himself) But is it so terrible? Wouldn't it be better to explain things?   TROCHILUS  (also reassuring himself) You're done for.   EUELPIDES But we are not men.   TROCHILUS What are you, then?   EUELPIDES  (defecating also) I am the Fearling, an African bird. 
